


Do I want diagonal movement? MD games have that but that's no reason on it's own to have it. I do like walls blocking diagonal attacks while open areas allow them, it makes positioning more important.

Combat encounters instead of just bump attacks and such? Not for the 7DRL version, what I do want though is somehow ending up with results that combat encounters would give.
  Monster next to you.
    Move away.
      You escape, monster stays where it was.(unlikely without using a charge?)
      You're chased, monster follows.
      You get obstructed/tripped, you fail to move. Lose energy?(Moving somewhere you didn't intend to could be a thing but might be annoying)
        You fail to move again, you get caught/swallowed.
    Attack monster
      You lose energy and monster is
        stunned and loses energy
        stunned
        loses energy
        unharmed
    Pass a turn
      Monster blocked your escape this turn.
      Monster attacks, you lose energy
      Monster knocks you down, you're stunned
    Use charge, next action more successful but charge/rune needs to be recollected after it reappears nearby in a few turns.

Not sure how random I want what happens to be, I could have it be mostly deterministic and base things on charge use, monster type, energy levels, familiarity and deals with only randomness from what the enemy tries to do. Or I could have what happens have a random element with charges, monster type ect. mainly affecting likelihoods of what happens. Random would be easier in some ways though would need various options to deal with things when they go badly.

Rabbits are deadly, sure they won't try to attack you but being within 2 tiles of one still risks taking damage from them randomly deciding to go to your tile.
  I could make them just not attack ever, they'd still be somewhat interesting as they might block you.




plans, ideas and hopeful todo:
stepping on water has a chance of disturbing fleshegg
quakes expand water tiles.
  Nighttime start event?
  
UI
  TU bar
  Runes section
  Spells
  Soundmap
  Clickable controls
  Allies
  Daytime/Season

Shrinking
  Enter crawlable areas without crouching
  New even smaller entrances(tiny pathways)
    Contents not necessarily displayed, could effectively be portals
      Considering also just crawl sized one, idea being that it'd be easy to replace walls next to existing vent entrances with them so vents aren't just weird doors and I don't necessarily need to generate vent sections as part of same map.
        Actually generating a separate vent map could be an option though. Might be boring to move in if it just links the vent entrances together so either make auto run in corridors thing or make the vent map more interesting.
  Some explanation for how you achieve shrinking(power of belt or something)
Building "a rail way" that you can use to "teleport" along it (when shrunk).
  Potentially just have preexisting lines that indicate tiny pathways and such.

  
"cantrip" spells that don't cost runes(but maybe energy)
  perhaps get these based from monsters in some way.
  or have them be crouched versions of normal spells
    push, 
      push back 1 enemy by 1 tile
    spawn mirror,
      (in front of you, possibly 2 or 3 tiles away though if it's say a corridor it could go straight until there's actually something to either side of it)
    web, 
      create web that stuns enemies for 1 turn
    jump/blink/glide, 
      move 2 or 3 (flyable) tiles straight instantly
    slimeslide, (slimepuddle)
      dash but crawling and no attack and leave behind a line of slime puddles or just spawn slime puddle(s) nearby.

      
Decide what to do with pits,
  are they just walls that allow flying creatures/things to pass and don't block vision or is there a way to fall into them and what happens if you do? Fall(or just warp) back into the room at random spot and take damage would be easy, could also do lower levels but that reminds me that I might want the world gen to not require entirely blank rooms to prevent exits in that direction since making lower areas match pits at higher level... I could just check for a room below before spawning pits couldn't I?
make fast monsters animate nicely(the 1st move is instant atm.)
  WOOP works fine so somehow getting it to do the two tile move in one step would work
limited free turning?
  Should try having it so you can look in only 2 or 3 directions, otherwise once I add facing based FoV you'd want to spin around every turn, or maybe just have one direction(behind) you can't see and no free turning. Or I could just not have turning affect FoV.
  Maybe have a bar or such with 3 or 4 free actions and have picking up stuff take 1, getting up take 2, start crawling 1 or 2. Should actually doing full turn actions take 1 so that turn ends once you get to 4?
Wake up sounds(wasps esp.)
Runes could be just the icon to avoid needing to call them runes.
Sound panning, stereo sound based on if sound source is to left or right
Soundmap.
Soundmap focus, passing a turn should show sounds on the main map instead of less accurate sound map.
would crystal being able to swap with you using woop be too much?
adjust spells to work in a way where each spell has a dedicated slot.
Monster that can move between rooms and appears at night.
More involved ending scenario.
spell swapping
allow you to staying in a room at the end of day but change all exits to go to main room.
Running(shift + direction to automove) making it follow corridors until something interesting would be nice but probably too much work.
  Needs serious rework of how input is handled so not doing it for now

todo:

line building after finding all outer circles?
Monster improvements
  Slime puddles you slip on
  Spider webs
  Hogoblins/Orcs sometimes knock you back
  Goblins very rarely crawl into neighbouring vents(they also can't attack while doing that)
  Mirrors(make crystals actually immobile but able to spawn mirrors that they shoot at to attack you)
  Golem monster that uses current crystal behaviour aside from wooping
  Make fleshball use DRAG and WATERWOOP spells, rest on it's own and whatever else to make it more dangerous
Make fleshballs "follow" you to differnt maps
Something that gives max energy/hp. Mushrooms?
Let you know which spell a circle gives before charging it?

bugs:
passing in water messes with player sprite sometimes
haste breaks things badly on map change
pressing spell keys with no spells gives harmless error
quakes can't break flesh eggs
something wrong with rng.

not done but no longer as important:
  Show rune icons on UI, fancy way would be to show runes moving from count to drop indicator and then to level.
  due to no stun on hit:
    resting hpup time counter
    Magic circles that allow casting (any or specific?) spells for free?
      Or some other way to make playing frugally/optimally more interesting, as is you do interesting stuff only when it's the only way to avoid taking damage.

done:
Different floor after destroyed wall
make things glow in the dark(sort of, darkness is drawn before anything that'd glow)
More spells
Line of Sight at night(or just "fake" one by hiding stuff based on distance)
currently you get more than 10 spells but have no way to use them, I could do shift + 1-9 to cast more(would have to adjust the UI though)
warp to main and lose all runes if outside at the end of day.
Make fully charging the circle actually end the game.
BLINK spell
make score count total charge of all circles
(is there anything besides time that could differentiate score of one winning run from another? Deals/Contracts if I get around to adding them. Some other collectable(gems once I've changed runes to not be gems). Monster interactions... Actually damage taken might be an easy one though that being 0 shouldn't be too hard(and it kind of sucked when I tried it) so would need something else too.)
Make players rune sprite depend on spells learned and not carried runes.
move toward player has passability check or something that prevents small creatures from attacking.
indicate future rune drop spots?(sort of, I set an effect each turn and tiles have an unused runehint flag)
hiding in water and vents(distance 3+ enemies move randomly)
circle warps
make usedRunes level based
Haste spell
outer circle locations and discovery
Banish/Seal spell
no stun on attack?
need some way to track collected gems on a worldmap level.
Doing damage to resting enemies can break their hp display or something.
put 0 to 3 flesh eggs into water each level, quakes (on turns 50+ or so?)
daynight cycle.
  No light at night, so at least limited LoS, could go all the way and make you effectively blind and move based on memory and sounds.
going back to previous areas
Level edge exits
  For base building(esp. a home base of sorts), if you've got just up or down as directions to go there's limited reasons for building stuff(prep for ascension would be good one though).
  Start off in a (seemingly?) dead end and need to go few levels in one direction before reaching ideal central base location where there are multiple exits
    if defensibility is a concern the base spot could be just before the crossing.
mapgen RNG separate from normal RNG
seeded mapgen
getConnectedTiles doesn't work correctly?(inBounds checks fixed it)
Fix turning sometimes failing to show your sprite.(Issue was type coercion sometimes detecting that for a reason no longer relevant I had set player.dir to be a string of a number)
water required for healing
water
pits are water
submergion
crawling
knockout instead of delete enemies
pass turn
Indicate growled state somehow.
sound volume based on distance
fix last exit not working
fix island detection
facing
somehow ensure closest sounds take priority or do something else with situation of multiple things playing the same sound(stagger them?)
